# Research-Proposal
<body>
 <div>
  <h1>1. Introduction</h1>
    <p>In this research project, I plan to study the effects that heightened Islamophobia resulting from the 9/11 attacks and ongoing wars in the Middle East has had on the linguistic expression of Arabic-speaking populations in the United States. This research project is largely rooted in the field of sociolinguistics, which examines the effects of society on language. This project will specifically examine the effects of Islamophobic discrimination on Arabic language expression and language preservation through generations. It will focus on issues of societal pressure, Islamophobic violence, and policies relating to the Arabic language (and “foreign languages” more generally) as they affect the linguistic expression of Arabic speakers.<br>
This study is important to the field of sociolinguistics because it examines the real-world effects of an ideological shift and decades-long war effort on the language expression of a linguistic minority in the United States. Cultivating an “us vs them” mentality has historically been useful propaganda to rally war support, but it’s important to examine how this tactic affects the diaspora of so-called “them” living on home soil.<br></p>
  <h1>2. Background/Review of Literature</h1>
	  <p>It is widely agreed that the events of 9/11 have led to a sharp increase in Islamophobic and anti-Arab sentiments in the United States, which has negatively impacted these populations both in the US and around the world.<br>
	In one article, “The Impact of 9/11 and the War on Terror on Arab and Muslim Children and Families” by Selcuk R. Sirin, Elysia Choi1, and Canan Tugberk, focusing on the psychological effects of this increased Islamophobia and anti-Arab racism, the authors detail how Islamophobia has negatively impacted the mental health of Arab and Muslim children and their families.<br>
In studies relating to the use of the Arabic language specifically in the United States after 9/11, I noticed that much of it focuses on the teaching of Arabic to English speakers, and sometimes vice versa, and how this has been impacted by 9/11. One such article, “English and Arabic Post 9/11” by Mohammed Dahbi, examines how English and Arabic represent both a linguistic and cultural divide between the Western world and the Arab world. He details how teachers of English in the Arab world try and distance the language from English speakers and their culture, framing English as a utilitarian language, and how English-speaking learners of the Arabic language often go the opposite direction, learning Arabic due to curiosity to learn more about Arabs and Muslims. He concludes that both of these languages must be taught as tools for greater cultural understanding.<br>
	Another article, “The Status of Arabic in the United States of America post 9/11 and the Impact on Foreign Language Teaching Programs” by Abdel-Rahman Abu-Melhim, discusses how Arabic language teaching programs have been impacted since 9/11, with encouraging findings. Abu-Melhim reports that Arabic is the fastest growing language taught in universities, largely due to curiosity and political necessity after the events of 9/11.<br>
	While I was able to find plenty of non-linguistic articles focusing on the impact of Islamophobia on Arabs and Muslims post-9/11, and language-focused articles centering on English-speakers’ experiences with the Arabic language post 9/11, I noticed a disappointing relative lack of research on the effects of Islamophobia specifically on the linguistic expression of native Arabic speakers in the United States. While there are plenty of studies on the general state of Arabic language education post 9/11, I would consider the linguistic expression and freedom of native Arabic speakers and their children and how they have been impacted to be a very distinct issue that has not received enough focus.<br><br></p>
 </div>
 <div>
  <h1>3. Rationale</h1>
	  <p>After reviewing the topic and significance of post-9/11 Arabic language-focused sociolinguistics and the literature on this topic, I have decided to pursue the general research question: How has heightened Islamophobia and anti-Arab racism post-9/11 affected the linguistic expression of Arabic speaking communities in the United States? Narrower questions I hope to explore include: How has this discrimination affected the Arabic-language acquisition of the children of native Arabic speakers in the US? How has propaganda supporting the wars in the Middle East furthered Islamophobia and linguistic discrimination towards Arabic-speaking populations in the US? How has linguistic strain from Islamophobia evolved over time since the events of 9/11, if at all?<br>
	I am entering into this research project with the hypothesis that the linguistic expression of native Arabic speakers and their children in the United States has suffered as a result of the increased hostile environment towards Muslims and Arabs since 9/11. If my hypothesis is confirmed, it will highlight how Islamophobia has touched the lives of native Arabic speakers in ways that are more subtle and insidious than physical and verbal violence towards Arabs and Muslims. It would help show the ways that Islamophobia harms not only the physical and mental well-being but also the identities and cultural/linguistic expression of Arabs in the United States. 
If my hypothesis is disconfirmed, it would be an encouraging testament to the resilience of native Arabic speakers’ linguistic expression. However, I would expect that even if the broader trend indicates that Arabic linguistic expression has not suffered as a result of Islamophobia, that this study will reveal prevalent linguistic-related Islamophobia and anti-Arab racism nonetheless.<br><br></p>
 </div>
 <div>
  <h1>4. Method and Design</h1>
    <p>For this research project, I plan to conduct a series of interviews with a variety of native Arabic speakers and their children who live around the country. I plan to ask about participants’ linguistic habits and comfort in speaking Arabic in public both before and after 9/11. I plan to focus on three main groups: older native Arabic speakers who were alive and living in the United States both before and after 9/11 (both migrants and older children of migrants who learned Arabic as their first language); the children of native Arabic speakers who have lived most or all of their lives in post-9/11 America; and native Arabic speakers who have migrated to the United States post-9/11 with long-term residency plans. I believe interviewing these groups will provide a good picture of how changing attitudes and Islamophobia post-9/11 have impacted linguistic expression among native Arabic-speaking communities and their children.<br>
I hope to find at least 20 participants from around the United States from each of these groups and conduct interviews that are on average half an hour with each participant, but the time is expected to fluctuate depending on how much each participant decides to share. The number of participants may also fluctuate depending on the regions participants are from, as I am seeking a more balanced regional representation.  I intend to reach out through online groups and forums, as well as through organizations that work with migrants from Arab countires.<br>
Interviews will be conducted primarily over Zoom or a similar platform, or possibly in-person for more local participants. I intend to ask a pre-prepared question set designed specifically for each of the three groups as a basis of the interviews, with any additional questions being added organically depending on and arising from the content of the participants’ answers. I intend to create intelligent transcriptions from the interview recordings and code the data to create a thematic analysis and come to my final conclusions.<br>
The benefits of these choices are that interviews give participants more freedom to contribute their own ideas and experiences to the project without boxing them into the kind of structure of a survey. Coming into the interviews with a set of basic but changeable questions allows me to learn about the specific points I’m interested in while letting participants guide the conversation as well. An intelligent transcription of each interview allows me to get all of the information that participants share in their own words while eliminating pauses and sounds like “um” in order to avoid clouding important points. As someone approaching this from the broader field of linguistics, I carefully consider how slight semantic changes can alter the meanings and intents behind statements, and I think this approach allows me to keep interview transcriptions as accurate as possible while still being readable. Choosing to code the interviews allows me to see themes and patterns in a clearer and more objective sense with my own biases coloring the findings much less.<br>
Drawbacks of my methodological choices include the subjectivity of interviews, the unverifiability of many people’s personal experiences and memories, and the potential for the interviewer to frame their questions in ways that guide participants to a pre-assumed conclusion. Another potential issue that could arise is the varied English abilities that participants may have, as most of them will know English as a second language. For this reason, it will be important to have a skilled Arabic translator involved in the project for potential clarification of questions and answers. While interviews are a very subjective way of data collection, as this is a project that will focus in a large part on participants’ own feelings and comfort when expressing themselves linguistically in Arabic, I believe that this is not necessarily an entirely negative feature. The place where I could see this potentially arising as a problem a bit more could be in participants’ reporting of their own linguistic habits. As for the potential for the interviewer to frame questions to fit their own expectations, I intend to come into this project without predetermined expectations, ask colleagues to look over my interview questions before using them, and (if participants allow it) to make interviews available to the public for increased transparency.</p>
 </div>
</body>
